Review before going upstream (#2)
grooverdan/docs: mariadb/content.md

### `MARIADB_ROOT_HOST` / `MYSQL_ROOT_HOST`

> This is the hostname part of the root user created. By default this is `%`, however it can be set to any default [MariaDB allowed hostname component](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/create-user/#host-name-component). Setting this to `localhost` will prevent any root user being accessible except via the unix socket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the hostname part of the root user created. By default this is `%`, however it can be set to any default [MariaDB allowed hostname component](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/create-user/#host-name-component). Setting this to `localhost` will prevent root user access from other containers unless a shared unix socket is used.
```

Author: I started writing this way first, but then got to the point when I asked "do I need to explain the shared unix socket now?".

Reviewer: That's the question :smile: My change mostly targets "any root user", which isn't quite right, thus I changed it to "from other containers". Since nothing special (in terms of "different to a not containerized server") is happening here we might also simply skip the second sentence.

> ### `MARIADB_MYSQL_LOCALHOST_USER` / `MARIADB_MYSQL_LOCALHOST_GRANTS`

Reviewer: If you choose that `MARIADB_MYSQL_LOCALHOST_GRANTS` implies `MARIADB_MYSQL_LOCALHOST_USER` (see https://github.com/MariaDB/mariadb-docker/pull/409#pullrequestreview-873937215), please document it.

> Set `MARIADB_MYSQL_LOCALHOST_USER` to a non-empty create the `mysql@locahost` database user. This is useful for a variety of health check or backup scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set `MARIADB_MYSQL_LOCALHOST_USER` to a non-empty value to create the `mysql@locahost` database user. This user is especially useful for a variety of health checks and backup scripts.
```

> By default this gets the [USAGE](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/grant/#the-usage-privilege) privilege. If more access is required, additional [global privileges](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/grant/#global-privileges) in the form of a comma separated list can be provided. If you are sharing a volume containing MariaDB's unix socket (`/var/run/mysqld` by default), privileges beyond `USAGE` can result in confidentiality, integrity and availability risks so use a minimal set. See the example below on using Mariabackup. The `healthcheck.sh` script also documents the required privilege(s) for each form of health check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `mysql@localhost` user gets [USAGE](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/grant/#the-usage-privilege) privileges by default. If more access is required, additional [global privileges](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/grant/#global-privileges) in the form of a comma separated list can be provided. If you are sharing a volume containing MariaDB's unix socket (`/var/run/mysqld` by default), privileges beyond `USAGE` can result in confidentiality, integrity and availability risks, so use a minimal set. See the example below on using Mariabackup. The `healthcheck.sh` script also documents the required privileges for each health check test.
```

By default, the entrypoint script automatically loads the timezone data needed for the `CONVERT_TZ()` function. If it is not needed, any non-empty value disables timezone loading.

> ### `MARIADB_AUTO_UPGRADE` / `MARIADB_DISABLE_UPGRADE_BACKUP`

Reviewer: Just thinking about it: Since this might indeed change the `mysql` database of an pre-existing datadir, shall we add a note about this here too?

> Set `MARIADB_AUTO_UPGRADE` to a non-empty value to have the entrypoint check if `mysql_upgrade`/`mariadb-upgrade` needs to run, and if so, run the upgrade before starting MariaDB accessible to applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set `MARIADB_AUTO_UPGRADE` to a non-empty value to have the entrypoint check whether `mysql_upgrade`/`mariadb-upgrade` needs to run, and if so, run the upgrade before starting the MariaDB server.
```

> Before the upgrade, a backup of the system database is created in the top of the datadir with the name `system_mysql_backup_*.sql.zst`. This backup process can be disabled with by setting `MARIADB_DISABLE_UPGRADE_BACKUP` to a non-empty value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before `mysql_upgrade`/`mariadb-upgrade` runs, a backup of the system database is created in MariaDB's datadir, matching `system_mysql_backup_*.sql.zst`. This backup process can be disabled by setting `MARIADB_DISABLE_UPGRADE_BACKUP` to a non-empty value.
```

If there is no database initialized when the container starts, then a default database will be created. While this is the expected behavior, this means that it will not accept incoming connections until such initialization completes. This may cause issues when using automation tools, such as `docker-compose`, which start several containers simultaneously.

## Health/Liveness/Readiness Checking

> See [the "Official Images" FAQ](https://github.com/docker-library/faq#healthcheck) for why there isn't a `HEALTHCHECK` directive. There is however a `/usr/local/bin/healthcheck.sh` script that provides a variety of options for what you considers health/liveness/readiness. This is documented within the script itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [the "Official Images" FAQ](https://github.com/docker-library/faq#healthcheck) for why there is no default `HEALTHCHECK` directive. However, you can use the `/usr/local/bin/healthcheck.sh` script to choose from a (non-exhaustive) list of tests to check for whatever you consider health/liveness/readiness. Refer to the script's sources to learn about how to use it and which exact tests are provided.
```

## Usage against an existing database

> If you start your `%%IMAGE%%` container instance with a data directory that already contains a database (specifically, a `mysql` subdirectory), no environment variables that control initialization will be needed or examined, and the pre-existing database will not be changed in any way. The only environment variable that has an effect if the existing data directory is populated is `MARIADB_AUTO_UPGRADE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you start your `%%IMAGE%%` container instance with a data directory that already contains a database (specifically, a `mysql` subdirectory), no environment variables that control initialization will be needed or examined, and no pre-existing databases will be changed. The only exception is the non-default `MARIADB_AUTO_UPGRADE` environment variable, that might cause `mysql_upgrade`/`mariadb-upgrade` to run, which might indeed update your databases, especially the `mysql` database.
```

Author: Good.
"your databases" isn't quite right as its "--upgrade-system-tables" - https://github.com/MariaDB/mariadb-docker/blob/774a77c330aeb10a8b1ffee99d54e9f6821b5d79/docker-entrypoint.sh#L406 so I'll probably reword around "system tables" instead of `mysql` database.

> If you start your `%%IMAGE%%` container instance with a data directory that already contains a database (specifically, a `mysql` subdirectory), no environment variables that control initialization will be needed or examined, and no pre-existing databases will not be changed. The only exception is the non-default `MARIADB_AUTO_UPGRADE` environment variable, that might cause `mysql_upgrade`/`mariadb-upgrade` to run, which might change the system tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you start your `%%IMAGE%%` container instance with a data directory that already contains a database (specifically, a `mysql` subdirectory), no environment variables that control initialization will be needed or examined, and no pre-existing databases will be changed. The only exception is the non-default `MARIADB_AUTO_UPGRADE` environment variable, that might cause `mysql_upgrade`/`mariadb-upgrade` to run, which might indeed change the system tables.
```

$ docker exec -i some-%%REPO%% sh -c 'exec mysql -uroot -p"$MARIADB_ROOT_PASSWORD"' < /some/path/on/your/host/all-databases.sql
```

> If one, or more databases, but not `--all-databases` or the `mysql` database were dumped, these databases can be restored by placing the resulting sql file in the `/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If one or more databases, but neither `--all-databases` nor the `mysql` database, were dumped, these databases can be restored by placing the resulting sql file in the `/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d` directory.
```
